Let's install the security onion Via USB. Some pics can't be uploaded due to inclusion of ip address which can't be uploaded to github
Ready the USB with the security onion and start the boot.
You'll need two cable for the required NIC. -2 Cable.jpg
If in VM you'll have to adjust the network to bridge adaptor and set up for 2 NIC or it won't work.

Let's start. choose the first option to install normal security onion -Security Onion install.jpg
It'll ask for you to type yes since it'll delete all your data.  -yes.jpg
put username and password. example: name_admin  -User Name and Password.jpg
let it proceed. it'll take time as it to collect data from the USB.

After some time you'll have to log in using your username and password and it'll start the installation. -start installation.jpg
choose the install option. -install SO.jpg
choose installation type. EVAL or STANDALONE. it'll require at least 8gb ram and 200gb of storage.  -Choose Installation type.jpg

type AGREE. -AGREE.jpg
Next will ask you to standard install or airgap. airgap installation is for offline so let's choose standard. -standard or airgap.jpg

create your host name. -host name.jpg
choose NIC for management. -choose NIC.jpg
to clarify : we use two cables which is called as NIC(network interface card) in this case use one for monitor and one for management.

Now let's set up our ipv4 address. -setup ipv4.jpg
Set up as recommended if you don't know what to set up. -set as recommended.jpg
For the gateway's IP. it'll be your admin ip like 192.168.1.1 depends on your network but most home wifi are the same local ip. -gateway ip.xcf
For DNS just proceed with default input. -DNS.jpg
set your DNS search domain. -DNS name.jpg
For this set up we'll use direct connect which is easier. -direct connect.jpg

We are left with one open NIC which will be used for Monitoring. Uses spacebar to check the mark since we can't use mouse. -monitor NIC(uses spacebar).jpg
set your email name for Security onion. -set email.jpg

For access ip address which determine who can access to the Security onion. if you don't know what to put in just allow all the ip of your subnet by typing in 192.168.1.0/24.  -access ip.jpg

and final check. -final check.jpg
and Let it cook it'll take much time. grill your meat and chill with beer. -let it cook.jpg.
when it's done it'll be show up like this after reboot. -done.jpg

in my case i had to wait for it to let the update run. after waiting you'll be able to log in using the provided ip in your browser it'll give you warning like it'll unsafe. just proceed and you'll be able to log in. -SO web interface.jpg

